bluetooth: host: Introduce nRF Connect SDK Bluetooth Host (#27863)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/bt/host/shell/host/gap.rst

.. bt_gap_shell:

> 
> .. contents::
>    :local:
>    :depth: 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

.. code-block:: console
   uart:~$ bt adv-create conn-scan
   Created adv id: 0, adv: 0x20002348
   uart:~$ bt adv-data 1009426C7565746F6F74682D5368656C6C
   uart:~$ bt adv-start
   Advertiser[0] 0x20002348 set started

The data must be formatted according to the Bluetooth Core Specification (see version 5.3, vol. 3, part C, 11).
In this example, the raw value ``1009426C7565746F6F74682D5368656C6C`` starts with the size octet
``0x10`` and then the type octet ``0x09``.
The value ``0x09`` is the Complete Local Name type, and the remaining bytes are the name in ASCII.
So, on the other device you should see the name *Bluetooth-Shell*.

When advertising, if other devices use an *active* scanner, you may receive *scan request* packets.
To visualize those packets, you can add :code:`scan-reports` to the parameters of your advertiser.

Directed Advertising
====================

You can use directed advertising on the shell if you want to reconnect to a device.
The following example demonstrates how to create a directed advertiser with the address specified right after the parameter :code:`directed`.

> The :code:`low` parameter indicates that you want to use the low duty cycle mode, and the :code:`dir-rpa` parameter is required if the remote device is privacy-enabled and supports address
> resolution of the target address in directed advertisement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :code:`low` parameter indicates that you want to use the low duty cycle mode, and the :code:`dir-rpa` parameter is required if the remote device is privacy-enabled and supports address resolution of the target address in directed advertisement.
```

.. code-block:: console

   uart:~$ bt adv-create conn-scan directed D7:54:03:CE:F3:B4 random low dir-rpa
   Created adv id: 0, adv: 0x20002348

After that, you can start the advertiser and the target device can reconnect.

Extended Advertising
====================

To enable extended advertising, use the ``ext-adv`` parameter.

.. code-block:: console

   uart:~$ bt adv-create conn-nscan ext-adv
   Created adv id: 0, adv: 0x200022f0
   uart:~$ bt adv-start
   Advertiser[0] 0x200022f0 set started

This will create an extended advertiser, that is connectable and non-scannable.

Encrypted Advertising Data
==========================

Zephyr supports the Encrypted Advertising Data feature.
The :code:`bt encrypted-ad` sub-commands allow managing the advertising data of a given advertiser.

To encrypt the advertising data, you need to provide key materials using :code:`bt encrypted-ad set-keys <session key> <init vector>`.
The session key is 16 bytes long and the initialisation vector is 8 bytes long.

To add advertising data, use :code:`bt encrypted-ad add-ad` and :code:`bt encrypted-ad add-ead`.

> The former will take add one advertising data structure (as defined in the Core Specification), whereas the later will read the given data, encrypt them, and add the generated encrypted advertising
> data structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The former will take add one advertising data structure (as defined in the Core Specification), whereas the later will read the given data, encrypt them, and add the generated encrypted advertising data structure.
```

You can mix encrypted and non-encrypted data, when done adding advertising data.

> Use :code:`bt encrypted-ad commit-ad` to apply the change to the data to the selected advertiser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use :code:`bt encrypted-ad commit-ad` to apply the change to the data of the selected advertiser.
```

         session key set to:
         00000000: 9b a2 2d 38 24 ef c7 0f  eb 80 0c 80 29 4c ba 38 |..-8$... ....)L.8|
         initialisation vector set to:
         00000000: 2e 83 f3 d4 d4 76 95 b6                          |.....v..         |
         uart:~$ bt encrypted-ad decrypt-scan on
         Received encrypted advertising data will now be decrypted using provided key materials.
         uart:~$ bt scan on
         Bluetooth active scan enabled
         [DEVICE]: 68:49:30:68:49:30 (random), AD evt type 5, RSSI -59   shell C:1 S:0 D:0 SR:0 E:1 Prim: LE 1M, Secn: LE 2M, Interval: 0x0000 (0 us), SID: 0x0
                 [SCAN DATA START - EXT_ADV]
                 Type 0x09:    shell
                 Type 0x31: Encrypted Advertising Data: 0xe2, 0x17, 0xed, 0x04, 0xe7, 0x02, 0x1d, 0xc9, 0x40, 0x07, uart:~0x18, 0x90, 0x6c, 0x4b, 0xfe, 0x34, 0xad
                 [START DECRYPTED DATA]
                 Type 0xff: 0xde, 0xad
                 Type 0xff: 0xbe, 0xef
                 [END DECRYPTED DATA]
                 [SCAN DATA END]
                 ...

Filter Accept List
******************

> You can create a list of allowed addresses that can be used to connect to them automatically.
> Here is how to do it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a list of allowed addresses that can be used to connect to them automatically as follows:
```

.. code-block:: console
   uart:~$ bt fal-add 47:38:76:EA:29:36 random
   uart:~$ bt fal-add 66:C8:80:2A:05:73 random
   uart:~$ bt fal-connect on

The shell will connect to the first available device.
If both devices are advertising at the same time, connection is established to the first address added to the list.

You can also use the Filter Accept List for scanning or advertising using the :code:`fal` command.

> For example, if you want to scan for a bunch of selected addresses, you can set up a Filter Accept
> List like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to scan for a bunch of selected addresses, you can set up a Filter Accept List like this:
```

Bluetooth: GAP Shell
####################

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2
```

The GAP shell is the "main" shell of Bluetooth and handles connection management, scanning,
advertising, and more.

Identities
**********

Identities are a Zephyr host concept, allowing a single physical device to behave like multiple

> logical Bluetooth devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Identities are a Zephyr host concept, allowing a single physical device to behave like multiple logical Bluetooth devices.
```

        [DEVICE]: 20:C2:EE:59:85:5B (random), AD evt type 3, RSSI -66  C:0 S:0 D:0 SR:0 E:0 Prim: LE 1M, Secn: No packets, Interval: 0x0000 (0 us), SID: 0xff
        [DEVICE]: 25:3F:7A:EE:0F:55 (random), AD evt type 3, RSSI -83  C:0 S:0 D:0 SR:0 E:0 Prim: LE 1M, Secn: No packets, Interval: 0x0000 (0 us), SID: 0xff
        uart:~$ bt scan off
        Scan successfully stopped

As you can see, this can lead to a high number of results. To reduce that number and easily find a
specific device, you can enable scan filters. There are four types of filters: by name, by RSSI, by
address and by periodic advertising interval. To apply a filter, use the :code:`bt scan-set-filter`
command followed by the type of filters. You can add multiple filters by using the commands again.

For example, if you want to look only for devices with the name *test shell*:

.. code-block:: console

        uart:~$ bt scan-filter-set name "test shell"

Or if you want to look for devices at a very close range:

.. code-block:: console

        uart:~$ bt scan-filter-set rssi -40
        RSSI cutoff set at -40 dB

> Finally, if you want to remove all filters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove all filters:
```

When using the custom advertisers, you can choose if it will be connectable or scannable. This leads
to four options: :code:`conn-scan`, :code:`conn-nscan`, :code:`nconn-scan` and :code:`nconn-nscan`.
Those parameters are mandatory when creating an advertiser or updating its parameters.

For example, if you want to create a connectable and scannable advertiser and start it:

.. code-block:: console

        uart:~$ bt adv-create conn-scan
        Created adv id: 0, adv: 0x200022f0
        uart:~$ bt adv-start
        Advertiser[0] 0x200022f0 set started

You may notice that with this, the custom advertiser does not advertise the device name; you need to
add it. Continuing from the previous example:

.. code-block:: console

        uart:~$ bt adv-stop
        Advertiser set stopped
        uart:~$ bt adv-data dev-name
        uart:~$ bt adv-start
        Advertiser[0] 0x200022f0 set started

You should now see the name of the device in the advertising data. You can also set a custom name by
using :code:`name <custom name>` instead of :code:`dev-name`. It is also possible to set the
advertising data manually with the :code:`bt adv-data` command. The following example shows how

> to set the advertiser name with it using raw advertising data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should now see the name of the device in the advertising data.
You can set a custom name using the :code:`name <custom name>` command instead of :code:`dev-name`.
You can also set the advertising data manually using the :code:`bt adv-data` command.
The following example shows how to set the advertiser name with it using raw advertising data:
```

        uart:~$ bt fal-add 65:4B:9E:83:AF:73 random
        uart:~$ bt fal-add 73:72:82:B4:8F:B9 random
        uart:~$ bt fal-add 5D:85:50:1C:72:64 random
        uart:~$ bt scan on fal

You should see only those three addresses reported by the scanner.

Enabling security
*****************

When connected to a device, you can enable multiple levels of security, here is the list for
Bluetooth LE:

* **1** No encryption and no authentication;
* **2** Encryption and no authentication;
* **3** Encryption and authentication;
* **4** Bluetooth LE Secure Connection.

To enable security, use the :code:`bt security <level>` command. For levels requiring authentication
(level 3 and above), you must first set the authentication method. To do it, you can use the
:code:`bt auth all` command. After that, when you will set the security level, you will be asked to
confirm the passkey on both devices. On the shell side, do it with the command
:code:`bt auth-passkey-confirm`.

Pairing
=======

Enabling authentication requires the devices to be bondable. By default the shell is bondable. You
can make the shell not bondable using :code:`bt bondable off`. You can list all the devices you are

> paired with using the command :code:`bt bonds`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling authentication requires the devices to be bondable.
By default, the shell is bondable.
To make the shell not bondable, use the :code:`bt bondable off` command.
To list all the devices you are paired with, use the :code:`bt bonds` command.
```
